[MUSIC]
>> Brian Holt: Something I wanted to
mention to everyone is that if you're
not getting these exercises
the first time that's okay.
This is definitely the fire hose
that you're drinking from here.
And just remember that college students
have two years to get through all
this stuff and we're shoving this down at
you all in one day so it's tough, right?
This is something that you should do and
then redo and then redo again until
eventually that repetition hopefully
will make sense in your head.
Okay, so let's talk about bubble sort.
Excuse me.
So we're gonna create a bubble sort
function.
>> Brian Holt: So
again this is just arrow function.
You could rewrite this as
function bubble sort and
that would be just fine too, okay?
And then so we're gonna have an outer
loop that's gonna keep track of if
something was swapped or not, okay?
So we're gonna have,
let swapped = false, right?
And then every time something
swaps we're gonna set false or
swapped equals to true, okay?
Here we're going to do our do loop,
so do, okay?
And then we're gonna input in, okay.
The other thing is changes
to x describe by the way if
you haven't already done that.
Okay, and
then we're gonna do a while here.
So while something has
been swapped we're gonna
keep doing this.
>> Brian Holt: And
then inside of that we're going to
do with this inner for loop, right?
So for (let i = 0) i
is < nums.length;
>> Brian Holt: i++.
Another thing that bears mentioning here
is you can make these more efficient.
Right now I'm going for
readability cuz we're not going for
the ultimate let's make this
as fast as we can right now.
We're going more for understanding.
And the reason why I bring that
up right now is really what
you could do is you could
do l = nuns.length, right?
And then i is less than l.
That's faster and is more efficient, but
what I'm trying to demonstrate is we're
not going after these micro optimizations,
right now, right?
We're just going for the broad strokes
here I just think that's more readable so
we're sticking with that, so deal with it.
Okay, so we wanna use our
fancy visualization thing.
So we're just gonna call snapshot
right here.
>> Brian Holt: Okay?
Again non-essential, right?
We're just doing this so
we can eventually see what we're doing.
So if the number that I'm on right now,
i, is greater than i + 1, right?
So if it's bigger than the one next to it,
then you're gonna swap them.
>> Brian Holt: And
here it's gonna write a really
simple swapping, right?
So we're gonna say
>> Brian Holt: Grab a temporary one so
it's gonna say this gonna be nums[i]
nums[i] is going to be equal to nums[i]
+ 1,
>> Brian Holt: And
nums[i] + 1 = temp, right?
And then here we're gonna
say swap is true, right?
Because we did do a swap here, right?
>> Brian Holt: And
down this is again not essential I'm
just gonna call snapshot again so
we get the final way that the array looks.
I think otherwise we won't miss it, okay?
So, let's go take our extra scribe off.
And I might have gotten an infinite
loop
>> Brian Holt: So if you see something
like this happen where your browser
totally seizes up, it probably means
that you have infinite loops somewhere.
>> Speaker 2: You can set the div swap
back to false.
>> Brian Holt: That's right.
You have to do it, that is totally right.
Why did I not put that in my notes?
That's why, okay, so this is what happens.
So don't be ashamed because
I obviously just did it.
Anyway we'll just go look at
the answer after I done it all again
>> Brian Holt: Right, so
I forgot to do this, right, good point.
Because if you don't set it to
false then it's gonna true and
is going to keep running forever.
So these are the kind of problems
you run in writing algorithms.
Lots of just broken crap everywhere.
>> Brian Holt: Okay?
This is look for
pretty much the same though.
>> Brian Holt: So again, we're looking at
this blow that up a little bit.
>> Brian Holt: Notice
that you see ten just kind of
bubbles to the top, right?
And then 9 is right there so
it kind of bubbles to the top and
if you look at 8 here, right?
Eventually 8 is gonna
start bubbling to the top.
You look at 7, that one starts bubbling.
6 and things just kind of start
slowly slipping into place, right.
Bubbling, right?
Bubble sort.
Great, any questions about that?
Feeling pretty good about that?
All right cool, I see mostly head nods.
So I can only assume that I nailed it,
all right.
>> Brian Holt: So
you just did your first sorting algorithm,
congratulations.
They only get harder.
[LAUGH]
Okay, Big O on this, right?
I think we talked about this
it's going to be n squared and
it's gonna be a really bad n squared
because you're gonna be looping through
a lot there's a lot of a wasted
effort in here, right?
You'll find a lot with algorithms that
you're trying section things off if I can
say this part of the array is
definitely sorted out that
I can make assumptions I don't
have to sort it again, right?
And so you can start ignoring
parts of your array.
And that's kind of what we're gonna
get into is we're gonna start ignoring
bigger and bigger pieces of our array